

Zack Morris

Zack was a particularly involved high school student. Athletically, Zack participated in cross country, basketball, and track. He has experienced some success in each of these sports. In 9th grade, Zack finished in 3rd place at a cross country meet. He was one of Bayside's better basketball players, and it hurt the team when he sprained his knee in the locker room before a big game. When Zack was possibly not going to compete in a track meet, Mr. Belding and Zack's team members were downtrodden because they thought there was no way they could win without Zack. Despite this success, Zack sometimes felt athletically overshadowed by Slater, who was the star of the school's football and wrestling teams. While working at the Malibu Sands Beach Club, Zack mentions that Slater is, "All-City in four sports."

Zack was also very musically talented. He was the lead singer and lead guitar player for a band called Zack Attack (in a dream). The other members were Kelly (vocals), Lisa (bass guitar), Slater (drums), and Screech (Keyboard). While this band never achieved the success that it did in Zack's dreams, it was good enough to get paid to play at local events. Zack Attack, however, offered to play for free at a school dance so that more money could be spent on decorations. This line-up featured Zack on vocals and guitar, Jessie on vocals, Lisa on bass guitar, Screech on keyboard, and Slater on drums. However, when Slater had to take over the lead vocals during the dance because Zack was outside talking to Kelly, when they broke up Ollie (a minor character on Saved by the Bell) took over on drums. Zack was also the lead singer of a 1950s-style doo-wop group, The Five Aces (a reference to the real-life group The Four Aces), that sang during a school sock hop. The other singers were Slater, Screech, Lisa, and Tori Scott (a student who transferred to Bayside during senior year). He was also a member of the glee club for a short time. He could also play the trombone.

Kelly Kapowski

Kelly Kapowski Morris, played by Tiffani Thiessen, was the most popular girl in school and was head cheerleader and captain of the volleyball, swim, and softball teams. Though a good student and role model, Kelly did find herself sentenced to detention on a couple of occasions. She is also a big fan of George Michael. She also was the love interest of lead Zack Morris.

At the start of her freshman year in Saved by the Bell, Zack had been trying to go out with Kelly ever since she can remember. For a while, a feud began between Zack and fellow student A.C. Slater over who would be her boyfriend, which caused her great stress, but a lot of fun at the same time. Kelly blushed numerous times when both Zack and Slater would hit on her, especially when it was done in front of other students. During her sophomore year, Slater conceded defeat to Zack and she and Zack began dating, whereas Slater thereupon pursued his interest in Jessica Spano.

AC Slater

Albert Clifford "A.C." Slater, played by Mario Lopez was a popular jock who excelled in most sports (particularly football and amateur wrestling). Slater is the sexy "jock" of the group. An army brat, he was an outsider, having transferred to Bayside in the first filmed episode (which aired later as a flashback). A.C. mentions that he has been to Bolivia, Italy, Iceland, and Berlin among other places. He becomes the school's star athlete, excelling as a wrestler and the quarterback of the football team, but does not excel in the class room.

His father (a Major in the U.S. Army) appears in two episodes. His mother, however, is not in any episodes. He also has a younger sister named JB whom Zack briefly began dating, much to his chagrin. In the season 4 episode "Love Machine," his ex-girlfriend from Berlin visits and calls him by his real name, "Albert Clifford". Much like Voorhies, Lopez was able to captivate the show's producers into casting him into a role that was originally written to be Caucasian. This issue of Slater's ethnicity is addressed in an episode from The College Years, where it is revealed that 25 years earlier A.C.'s father changed his last name from Sanchez to Slater so he could get into the military academy. Although the episode reveals that A.C. does not fluently understand Spanish, A.C. is seen speaking broken Spanish to the kitchen staff of the Malibu Sands Beach club.

Jessie Spano

Jessica Myrtle "Jessie" Spano, played by Elizabeth Berkley, is a lifelong friend of Zack, Screech, Lisa and Kelly. She and Zack live next door to each other, and Zack regularly visits Jessie by climbing through her window. Her parents are divorced. Presumably, she lives with her mother, who remarried, providing Jessie with a stepbrother (played by Joshua Hoffman, seen in only two episodes). Jessie's father is the owner and manager of the Marriott Desert Sands hotel. He is also remarried, to a much younger woman with whom Jessie did not initially get along. (Jessie's father is played by George McDaniel, and her new stepmother, Leslie, is played by Barbra Brighton).

Jessie is portrayed as a liberal (She critiqued then president George H W Bush), with strong feminist views. She is often the first to speak up when she feels something is unjust. Although seen as intelligent, Jessie has a somewhat neurotic streak.

Lisa Turtle

Throughout her high school years in Saved by the Bell, Lisa spends most of her time fighting off the affections of Screech who is relentless in pursuing her (and eventually wins at least one date with her) and has been doing so since they were in Kindergarten. Despite her irritation with Screech, she values him as a friend, and actually comes to admire Screech's nobility when he abdicates his position as the class valedictorian in favor of Jessie Spano, who had a slightly lower grade point average than he did but valued the position more. Lisa even went to the senior prom with Screech when she felt sorry for him that no one would go with him when he promised to respect her comfort zone and not ask her, but she decided that she wants him to be her prom date. Most of Lisa's time is spent in the company of schoolmates and fellow cheerleaders Kelly Kapowski and Jessie Spano.

Unlike the rest of her comrades, Lisa does not have a long-term relationship during high school (despite having a number of dates), although she shares a kiss with Zack in one episode, much to the chagrin of Screech. However, this is subsequently forgotten about in following episodes. Another episode had Screech on a date with a girl who was impressed by him, causing Lisa to be in a state of disbelief and possible envy, and the girl commented to Screech that Lisa might not be over him.

Screech

In Saved By The Bell, Screech is the only child of an unseen father and an Elvis-obsessed mother (guest star Ruth Buzzi). In addition, he has a hound dog named Hound dog, and a robot pal, named Kevin, whom he built and programmed himself. He often exhibits low self-esteem when it comes to girls, in contrast to his more popular friends.

During his years at Bayside High, Screech frequently pursues classmate Lisa Turtle and is consistently turned down by her. However, she does agree to date him in one episode, only to spoil the date by talking through the movie. She also attends senior prom with him, not least because he does not pester her to be his date, and she is moved by his sadness after he was harshly rejected by every other girl he asked.

It is revealed in one episode that Screech is of Italian ancestry.

Screech does eventually end up with a girlfriend, Violet Anne Bickerstaff (played by the then unknown Tori Spelling) and dates her for several episodes. Violet is then never seen again, without any explanation.

Screech is frequently roped into scams by his best friend, Zack. As a running gag, he often unwittingly sabotages them. When one such screw-up leads Zach to tell him "You are the dumbest human being on the planet!" Screech fires back "You hired me--what does that make YOU?"
In spite of all his faults, Screech is well liked by his friends.
